---
title: About Me
---

<!DOCTYPE html>
<html><head><meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/><title>About Me</title><style>
      * {
        font-family: Georgia, Cambria, "Times New Roman", Times, serif;
      }
      html, body {
        margin: 0;
        padding: 0;
      }
      h1 {
        font-size: 50px;
        margin-bottom: 17px;
        color: #333;
      }
      h2 {
        font-size: 24px;
        line-height: 1.6;
        margin: 30px 0 0 0;
        margin-bottom: 18px;
        margin-top: 33px;
        color: #333;
      }
      h3 {
        font-size: 30px;
        margin: 10px 0 20px 0;
        color: #333;
      }
      header {
        width: 640px;
        margin: auto;
      }
      section {
        width: 640px;
        margin: auto;
      }
      section p {
        margin-bottom: 27px;
        font-size: 20px;
        line-height: 1.6;
        color: #333;
      }
      section img {
        max-width: 640px;
      }
      footer {
        padding: 0 20px;
        margin: 50px 0;
        text-align: center;
        font-size: 12px;
      }
      .aspectRatioPlaceholder {
        max-width: auto !important;
        max-height: auto !important;
      }
      .aspectRatioPlaceholder-fill {
        padding-bottom: 0 !important;
      }
      header,
      section[data-field=subtitle],
      section[data-field=description] {
        display: none;
      }
      </style></head><body><article class="h-entry">
<header>
<h1 class="p-name">About Me</h1>
</header>
<section class="p-summary" data-field="subtitle">
My Background and What Led Me To Start DeFiNet
</section>
<section class="e-content" data-field="body">
<section class="section section--body section--first" name="d6e6"><div class="section-divider"><hr class="section-divider"/></div><div class="section-content"><div class="section-inner sectionLayout--insetColumn"><h3 class="graf graf--h3 graf--leading graf--title" id="169e" name="169e">About Me</h3><h4 class="graf graf--h4 graf-after--h3 graf--subtitle" id="eb40" name="eb40">My Background and What Led Me To Start DeFiNet</h4><p class="graf graf--p graf-after--h4" id="7083" name="7083">I have been a software engineer for the past decade. I started off at a non-profit, took a stint consulting which had me in fashion e-commerce, and finally landed in healthcare.</p><p class="graf graf--p graf-after--p" id="4dad" name="4dad">In the beginning, I was a Java developer. I worked on some large webapps, both front- and back-end. Looking back on it, I was incredibly lucky to work with a bunch of extremely talented people. I learned so many valuable things about how systems worked together and how high-functioning teams worked.</p><p class="graf graf--p graf-after--p" id="e4c4" name="e4c4">Then I moved on to a team focused on creating an enterprise UI framework. I dropped all server-side work from my plate and got to spend time studying Javascript and CSS libraries as our team evaluated the pieces we were going to use to build out the framework. This was also my first experience with a distributed team, as the majority of the team was based in the UK. Biggest highlight: getting to go work in the UK office for 3 weeks to kick off the team and build rapport. One of the coolest experiences of my life!</p><p class="graf graf--p graf-after--p" id="a8ca" name="a8ca">From there, I took my front-end experience to a consulting firm. My first stint was as a technical lead for multiple fashion brands’ websites. I help coordinate several on-shore and off-shore teams and got to see first-hand what physical stores’ e-commerce solutions looked like. They were giant and hard to make work. I wanted to understand how the front-end connected to the back-end services and it required me to get a desktop computer in addition to my laptop that I needed to work on getting set up when I wasn’t performing my normal duties. But they were just like a startup. They had a pool table.</p><p class="graf graf--p graf-after--p" id="deea" name="deea">From there, I went to consult with a healthcare company. Instead of front-end work, I started working on data-focused microservices for building up an enterprise data warehouse. More Java, but this time focused on data instead of webapps. I ended up accepting a full-time position with this company and moved over to a team that was building off of the data warehouse I was helping with. Here, we were taking an acquired product and modernizing it into our ecosystem. We ended up moving SSIS packages into Airflow. So started doing some C# and Python. Primarily Python. I also had the opportunity to assist with some other teams that were building out their initial apps. I loved prototyping and seeing where we could branch off the work we were doing and where we could grow. I had several prototypes get moved into our daily workflows. Again, I was incredibly lucky in that I got to work with a bunch of very talented people. I continued learning from everyone I could.</p><p class="graf graf--p graf-after--p" id="e591" name="e591">But toward the end of my tenure, I realized something. Even though I was being paid pretty well, I still wasn’t able to easily meet my financial goals. I started looking for ways to increase my income online. I started by blogging. Then I started learning how to make money by blogging. I made a few bucks and thought I could eventually turn it into a nice source of passive income.</p><p class="graf graf--p graf--startsWithDoubleQuote graf-after--p" id="a9c3" name="a9c3">“Passive Income” — The least descriptive name for an income stream possible.</p><p class="graf graf--p graf-after--p" id="f740" name="f740">First of all, there is nothing passive about it. It requires work. You have to show up and build up systems. In many ways, it is very similar to software engineering.</p><p class="graf graf--p graf-after--p" id="f03b" name="f03b">And that is what I realized. If I wanted to really build up an income on Medium, being a great writer isn’t necessary. There are writers of varying degrees of “skill” that make a nice living. But the biggest names on Medium built businesses around their writing. They built products that they could sell and used their content as their marketing. They aren’t geniuses at writing. But they are good writers, good marketers, good teachers, good &lt;anything&gt;. They figure out what they do well and build up companies around this.</p><p class="graf graf--p graf-after--p" id="0735" name="0735">So I created an LLC for consulting. Figured I could do that in addition to writing. But as I started to think about what I did well, consulting didn’t align terribly well. It could, but it takes a ton of legwork to find clients, I didn’t really know where to start, but I started thinking about my writing as related to my business at least.</p><p class="graf graf--p graf-after--p" id="4a43" name="4a43">Then I really thought about what I did well. I could build small tools and products that could be grown and adopted by teams. I realized that I had been doing that since the beginning of my career. What’s the best way for me to monetize this? By launching my own startup!</p><p class="graf graf--p graf-after--p" id="6822" name="6822">Enter DeFiNet. The research I was doing on money and how to make it gave me several ideas on how I could potentially improve the world with technology. I have a long-term vision of a completely decentralized world financial system, as do many others. But short-term, I want to build stuff that makes it easier to make money online. You shouldn’t have to have knowledge of creating and running a business to simply start making money. Platforms are starting to appeal to the individual creator because of this. Medium is a great example! But then, you end up becoming dependant on the platform.</p><p class="graf graf--p graf-after--p" id="689d" name="689d">The top creators tend to rely on email lists as the best way to directly reach their fans. To me, this is an opportunity. I think there is a better way. That is one of the goals of DeFiNet.</p><p class="graf graf--p graf-after--p" id="a9a0" name="a9a0">I also want to provide a better baseline income for content creators. Medium does well in letting the platform pay its top users well but doesn’t reward beginning writers well. I want to figure out a way to reward beginning creators better. This is another goal of DeFiNet.</p><p class="graf graf--p graf-after--p" id="e417" name="e417">Finally, I want to make it easier for small businesses to use social media to drive revenue. One of the things I have noticed is that many times, small businesses use a Facebook page in lieu of a website. I am, on the whole, against Facebook’s predatory use of data, and therefore see this as a target market that I would like to disrupt.</p><p class="graf graf--p graf-after--p graf--trailing" id="ae40" name="ae40">I am currently studying various implementations of blockchain as I see this as one possibility for making all of this work. The research I have done so far leads me to believe that we can do some pretty cool things with it.</p></div></div></section><section class="section section--body section--last" name="e629"><div class="section-divider"><hr class="section-divider"/></div><div class="section-content"><div class="section-inner sectionLayout--insetColumn"><p class="graf graf--p graf--leading graf--trailing" id="4401" name="4401"><a class="markup--anchor markup--p-anchor" data-href="https://leoguinan.substack.com/" href="https://leoguinan.substack.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank"><em class="markup--em markup--p-em">If you are interested in the blockchain applications and want to be one of the first to start earning the cryptocurrency I am building for my company, please consider subscribing to my Substack. All paid subscriptions will be rewarded with the equivalent in my cryptocurrency. Free subscriptions will receive company updates and the chance to earn crypto throughout the development process. I am also going to reward referrals. Please check out the link. We would love to have you onboard!</em></a></p></div></div></section>
</section>
<footer><p>By <a class="p-author h-card" href="https://medium.com/@guinanleo">Leo Guinan</a> on <a href="https://medium.com/p/cc892aa230f1"><time class="dt-published" datetime="2021-01-05T20:58:58.349Z">January 5, 2021</time></a>.</p><p><a class="p-canonical" href="https://medium.com/@guinanleo/about-me-cc892aa230f1">Canonical link</a></p><p>Exported from <a href="https://medium.com">Medium</a> on October 11, 2025.</p></footer></article></body></html>