---
title: Simulation Theory
---

<p>I've been working on a way to model the world that can explain why the economy is the way it is. </p><p>I've used a few different terms to describe my research: Quantum Economics, Memetic Economics, the economics of information. It's difficult, because I'm not studying just economics. I'm not studying just physics. I'm not studying just computer science.</p><p>I'm bringing everything together into a model of the world I can share. And the reason I'm doing so is based on something I'm calling Simulation Theory.</p><p>I needed a specific level of abstraction, because once I had that, a lot of things fell into place.</p><p>The main concept is that for any given world (some set of information, i.e. a static state) and physics (a collection of rules that determine state changes), there is an input state I that produces Output state O for cost C, and a simulation function with input I', output O', and Cost C' that can be used to predict O for a given I and C' &lt; C.<br><br>This is what AI is. We take training data (representations&nbsp;of the world, a subset of the world) and run it through a simulation and try to predict the output.&nbsp;This reduces the cost to get the output O in terms of money, energy, etc.</p><p>It's also what humans are. We collect data (observe the world around us), do something (make an input), and see if we get the result we expected. This is how we learn. The better we are at doing something, the less energy it takes to get to a given result.</p><p>Each iteration of anything is a run of a simulation. When you bake a cake, there is a world state that begins with individual ingredients, the recipe is the set of actions you take, and the result is the cake. Each time you iterate, you can either reduce the cost to get the same result or keep the cost static and get a better result. The more you bake a recipe, the less you have to reference the exact steps. But when just getting started, you have to pay close attention to the steps.</p><p>A recipe is a simulation. It reduces the set of all possible ingredients into a very specific starting point. It doesn't have to worry about things like the type of oven, the floorplan of your house, what brand of ingredients you use. It sets a baseline of quality that lets you follow it and achieve a constant level of quality.</p><p>You can focus on efficiency (least amount of effort) or quality (highest value output)</p>