---
title: SUPER SECRET PLAN TO FIX THE INTERNET
---

<h2 id="step-1-focus-on-the-individual-and-how-they-can-improve">Step 1: Focus on the individual and how they can improve. </h2><p>This is the goal of the coaching platform and coach matching. I want to help people find the people that can help them move the furthest, the fastest. We can't fix the world, we can only fix ourselves.</p><h2 id="step-2-create-the-opportunity-to-create-groups">Step 2: Create the opportunity to create groups. </h2><p>This is where the real power lives, when the individual realizes the power they can have as part of a group. It doesn't even have to be a big one or a super strong one. A group of average humans is equivalent to a superhuman when coordination is handled correctly.</p><h2 id="step-3-align-incentives-around-cooperation">Step 3: Align Incentives around cooperation. </h2><p>There is no competition here, only a desire for best possible matching, which helps everyone.</p><p>There's absolutely no way we can lose here. That's why I'm not worried about leaking my super secret plans because nobody will believe me, and then by the time they do, it will be too late.</p><p>So here's how it's going to work: the coaching platform is going to hit a period of rapid growth as it finds its way to product-market fit (PMF). After it does, it will end up flipping to become a high quality social network that will force the other players in the space to change or die.</p><p>In one stroke, I plan on taking away the power of large tech companies to interfere in your lives at anywhere close to the level they have previously. And they'll be powerless to stop me, because they won't even notice me. Until they do.</p><p>So welcome to Internet 2.0. It's here, it's about to earn your trust, and it's about to usher in a brighter age of human flourishing than anyone planned on having to deal with after getting the shitshow presentation that social media has given us so far.</p>