---
title: What's Keeping You Up At Night?
---

<p>I'll tell you what's keeping me up at night: cashflow.<br><br>So I decided to change the way we think about work and value. I want you to help underwrite my risk by paying me a monthly retainer that starts low and gets bigger over time.</p><p>Here's the deal: I'll take on your risk and do so as cheaply as possible. You tell me what you think the biggest risks to your company are. And I'll turn that risk into a series of lottery tickets for you that have better and better chances of paying off over time.<br><br>Once you decide you want to come onboard, you take the survey at the bottom and you'll get a link to my calendar. You'll tell me all about the things you are worried about but don't have the resources to handle. <br><br>From there, I'll outline some plans of ideas we can take. What I can do depends on the resources you want to throw at things. I build things, I create content, I run experiments, and I'm building an Idea Delivery Network, so I'll have access to all sorts of people learning how to do all sorts of things.</p><p>There's a reason I am doing things this way: I'm hard to keep up with. I'm constantly moving, experimenting, thinking, and tweaking. When I set up things where I need to be aligned with a team at a given time, I'm not always reliable. <br><br>But when given some freedom to experiment and explore ideas? That's where I can work my magic. I see a much different world than other people, because I live in a very specific future that I'm building. So I'm betting on that, and betting on myself. No matter what retainer you start paying me, I'm going to work on delivering so much value to you so quickly, you immediately increase your amount you are willing to pay me. Over time, as companies start competing for my time and attention because the delivery network is growing and my time/attention are seen as more valuable, I'll be using a combination of time/amount backing me to allocate my attention. </p><p>I'm cheap now, because this is a new model, the Idea Delivery Network doesn't exist yet, and nobody has seen me prove anything yet.</p><p>That's about to change, and I assume you found this page because of the content I'm creating while speedrunning the economy via the combined power of trust and memetics. Everything has been moved into place over the last four years and the system is primed. Now we simply let the seeds grow and pour on a little collective effort.</p><p>Here's what I would love in return, besides the money. Because I'm minimizing the risk to you, I'm going to ask for the creative's worst nightmare: exposure. That's something I need some help with, so highlighting anything I do that you like is extremely helpful, especially if it's something weird that you didn't expect to see/like.<br><br>Beyond that, we'll see where the collaboration takes us! And I'll include a spot at the end of all my youtube videos and newsletters with all companies that back my insurance policy.</p><figure class="kg-card kg-embed-card"><iframe src="https://tally.so/embed/wM6oQY?alignLeft=1&amp;hideTitle=1&amp;dynamicHeight=1" width="100%" height="100%" frameborder="0" marginheight="0" marginwidth="0" title="Tally Forms" scrolling="auto"></iframe><script>var d=document,w="https://tally.so/widgets/embed.js",v=function(){"undefined"!=typeof Tally?Tally.loadEmbeds():d.querySelectorAll("iframe[data-tally-src]:not([src])").forEach((function(e){e.src=e.dataset.tallySrc}))};if("undefined"!=typeof Tally)v();else if(d.querySelector('script[src="'+w+'"]')==null){var s=d.createElement("script");s.src=w,s.onload=v,s.onerror=v,d.body.appendChild(s);}</script></figure><p></p>