---
title: The New Education - Let's Flip Things Around, Shall We?
---

<p>I've been struggling a bit, honestly. I want to make this University something that changes the world somehow. But I got too held up on what currently existed. I couldn't quite bring things together the way I was hoping. </p><p>Some initial momentum around the idea faded, and I felt a bit lost, honestly. I thought this was going to be more collaborative from the get-go, but I didn't quite get the support I was hoping for, because I wasn't able to articulate it well.</p><p>I also don't have the resources to pay people right now, and I don't want others to put in lots of work for something that is still quite risky, in terms of the execution. Will this work?</p><p>I've got no damn idea.</p><p>I've got a hunch. A pretty strong one, honestly.</p><p>But I don't have the proof it will work. And I'm not quite certain it's an investable business, at least in terms of what VCs are looking for right now, because they don't know what they are looking for. I've got some thoughts on how all of that works, but that's for a different day.</p><p>I've been thinking a lot about how universities make money. And why they make money. Because with money, I can gain access to people who could help and pay them fairly for their time, which would allow shared upside to grow faster without having them take on undue risk.</p><p>Let's think about traditional universities. They charge astronomical fees. Maybe if you're poor, they will let you come for free. Or they'll help you get loans! Sure, just take 10,000s of dollars without any concept of what that number means. You've had $100 before right? This is pretty much the same thing.</p><p>And then we'll drop you in an ecosystem that you can probably survive. Unless you have any sort of issues that won't let you take full advantage of the education here. But that's your problem, not ours! We'll take our money, thanks. Best of luck to you! </p><p>Oh, you finished! Great! Here's your piece of paper that we have systems built around, so that people will trust you to know your ass from a hole in the ground, but probably not a whole lot more.</p><p>Is there some bitterness there? A bit, yeah. Turns out, undiagnosed ADHD and Autism make for some interesting effects when dropped into a college experience. I had a full tuition scholarship when I started. I lost that after year one. I got kicked out after year 2. I took a year off (because they forced me to) and then ended up going back.</p><p>Eventually, I got my little piece of paper and then spent months interviewing with all sorts of places, before I finally landed a job, almost 6 months after I graduated. Turns out, that little piece of paper that I went into debt for wasn't everything. </p><p>Looking back, I realize that I missed out on a lot of the unstated benefits of college. I missed out on the networking, I missed out on the career planning, the interview prep, etc.</p><p>I thought it was all about the degree. That means I ended up setting myself for a hard mode job search. I didn't realize how much easier it could have been.</p><p>Then I ended up getting a Master's degree. Because that's how you end up getting paid more right? More education?</p><p>It looks nice on my resume, I guess. Didn't do a ton for my career progression, really. I did learn how lucky I got in terms of my co-workers. I learned so much   </p>