---
title: My Origin Story
---

<p>One of the hardest parts of writing your origin story is knowing where to begin. </p><p>Do I start with the very beginning? My birth? Or even before? Is there relevant family history that plays into where I'm currently at?</p><p>The answer is that it doesn't matter as much as we think it does. It's not about the individual events in time, it's more about the overall picture that those events paint. But when I look back over my life, I see a few distinct eras.</p><h2 id="the-existing-era">The Existing Era</h2><p>At first, there was the Existing Era. This includes my childhood up through early adulthood. I wasn't too worried about my future. I lived almost entirely in the moment. My goal was to accomplish as much as possible with as little work as possible. And I managed that extremely well. </p><p>I finished quite high in my high school class without ever putting in much effort beyond the minimum. I went to the state college nearby that I knew I wouldn't have any issue getting into.</p><p>And I didn't understand what was happening around me. My world was very small. It consisted of myself and whoever happened to be around at the time. I struggled with all sorts of things without understanding why.</p><p>But I powered through. I ended up getting kicked out of college and was forced to sit out a year before I could go back. I worked, I drank, and I focused on when I could get back to it. </p><p>I made a lot of poor choices. But I didn't understand why I made them. They were just what appealed at the time. </p><p>I'm lucky. Things could have gone much differently. There were times that I could have ended up much differently. But eventually, I got back into school. I powered through. I brought my grades up.</p><p>And I got ready to graduate.</p><p>And around that time, I found out I had my first kid on the way. And that brought me into the second era of my life: the Scared Era.</p><h2 id="the-scared-era">The Scared Era</h2><p>The Scared Era is when I was hit with anxiety. For the first time in my life, I was suddenly faced with the prospect of being responsible for someone other than myself. </p><p>I graduated. I had a kid. I got a job. I got married. I had another kid.</p><p>At this point, all I wanted to do was ensure that my family was taken care of. All of my decisions were based on this goal. I didn't take risks. I couldn't afford to. </p><p>So I went down the safe path. The path that everyone told me was the best. I got a job. I tried to climb the ladder. I did certain things really well.</p><p>But I also kept hearing that there were things I wasn't doing well. Those things didn't seem to matter though. My performance was phenomenal. </p><p>But certain ways of working I had were "odd". And they "might be perceived as bad" by other people I worked with. </p><p>So I kept adapting. I kept normalizing what I did. I changed what I needed to.</p><p>And I made it work. I kept pulling in the paychecks and that's what mattered. </p><p>I did enjoy my job. I loved programming and I worked with some awesome people. That part was great. But the structure I didn't understand kept blocking me from advancing the way I thought I should be able to. I was putting in the work, learning everything I could, and yet, I was blocked. I hadn't "put in the time". Or I was missing "this specific type of experience that could easily be obtained on the role I was going for". </p><p>It didn't make a ton of sense. After about 5 years in my first "real job", I got an offer with a huge pay raise to be a consultant in another industry for a firm. It was marketed well, a "startup-like environment". I would be placed there as contract to hire. </p><p>It wasn't a good experience. The tech was archaic and painful to work with. The processes were, let's say, "sub-optimal". Everything was on fire, all the time.</p><p>But they had a pool table!</p><p>"Startup-like" environment. Huh.</p><p>I was there about a year and then ended up finding a different placement through the consulting firm. Back on a high-performing team and happier.</p><p>Real processes. Tech that didn't make me want to rip my hair out. People I could learn from. </p><p>Ended up taking a full-time role there and switching to a new team that was being spun up. Got to let my skills shine. Started creating Proof of Concepts for ways to modernize acquired systems. </p><p>Led the team's implementation of those POCs. </p><p>Still wasn't advancing though. Was putting in the work and the effort, but heard a lot of the same things I did at my first job. Didn't quite "check the right boxes". Or didn't "have the time".</p><p>And then a pandemic hit. You might have heard about that? Something called Covid?</p><p>And suddenly, they kicked us out of the office, told us to pack up and go work from home until further notice.</p><p>Finally, I'm able to just work without worrying about what it "looked like" to those around me. </p><p>Suddenly, I'm blasting through my daily work in record time. I'm not wasting hours on a daily commute. I'm able to work the schedule that I wanted to. And I started pushing myself. I was going to figure out how to "check all the boxes". I ended up getting put on a second team to help spin things up for them. Got them up and running and then also started helping on a third.</p><p>Still wasn't eligible for a promotion.</p><p>Around this time, I also started wondering about why I suddenly felt better than I had in years. And that led me to uncover the fact that I was ADHD and Autistic. Those two labels suddenly made everything else in my life fall into place. </p><p>All the struggles I didn't understand. All the misunderstandings. The frustrations I had faced.</p><p>The energy spent masking and trying to "look the part".</p><p>In fact, I realized something that was hard to stomach. I had masked so much over the years, I didn't have any idea who I truly was anymore. I was living the majority of my life in my own head and only showing the world the mask that it wanted to see. </p><p>And that led me to the third era of my life: The Awakened Era</p><h2 id="the-awakened-era">The Awakened Era</h2><p>This era started with a 'Eureka!' moment for me. I saw things with such clarity for the first time in so long, I started attacking things with a vigor that those around me weren't aware I could produce. And as a result, I then was faced with an intervention because the people in my life, those who had only seen the mask for so long, figured I was in a manic state.</p><p>I got to undergo an intense therapy program for several weeks as a result. I did so fully willingly, because I knew that people were worried about me. But I was also incredibly hurt, because they didn't recognize me at all when I finally thought to drop the mask I had built up. And I realized how alone I truly was.</p><p>But that didn't matter. I had an Idea! And for so long, I thought all I needed was a Big Idea that I could use to unlock everything. So I ran with that Idea and I did everything I could with it. I started writing and writing and writing.</p><p>But let's back up briefly. Before my 'Eureka!' moment, I had started writing online. Again, I was working remotely and had all sorts of extra energy. So I decided to try my hand at blogging. Imagine my surprise when I started writing on Medium and I made my first $1 online. </p><p>My mind was blown. And I was compelled to start writing a bunch more. If I couldn't grow my salary the traditional way as fast as I wanted because I couldn't get promoted, I could have a side hustle and writing seemed easy enough!</p><p>So I started learning about everything blogging-related and how to make money online. I joined a blogger's course, because that seemed like the right thing to do! And I started trying different types of styles.</p><p>And about a month in, I went viral. The lesson from the course was on harnessing emotion in your writing and I had gotten into a political argument with my dad. So I wrote about it.</p><p>It blew up. At first, it was exciting. Watching those numbers climb and climb and climb. I had it shared all over social media. </p><p>Then it started going downhill, quickly. </p>